We live in a time
that will end in final judgment
by means of God’s Kingdom.
Jesus described this time
when he gave his disciples a prophetic sign
regarding his invisible presence
at “the conclusion of the system of things.”
Since his prophecy applies to our day,
we should be very interested in its details.
It also points to a bright future
for those who heed its warnings.
We find the prophecy
in Matthew chapters 24 and 25,
Mark chapter 13,
and Luke chapter 21.
After revealing many of the things
that would occur, Jesus provided warnings
for his disciples by means of three parables.
First, he gave the parable of the virgins,
then the parable of the talents,
and finally the parable
of the sheep and the goats.
The parables show how a person’s behavior
will affect his or her final judgment.
The two parables apply to those
(the first two) with the heavenly hope,
and the third parable applies
to those with an earthly hope.
Yet no matter what our hope may be,
all of us can learn from the warnings
found in Jesus’ parables.
Let’s start with the third parable.
In the parable of the sheep and the goats,
Jesus described the final judgment
for sheeplike ones and goatlike ones
during the great tribulation.
As Jehovah’s appointed Judge and King,
Jesus will be completely righteous
in the judgment that he gives.
As a thorough Judge,
he is already observing
the actions, attitudes,
and speech of all people,
including how they treat
his anointed brothers.
By the start of the great tribulation,
Jesus will have identified those
who are sheeplike or goatlike
in their conduct and attitude.
From that time onward,
those who are goatlike
will not seek to change.
However, those who are sheeplike
and who have the hope
of living forever on earth
will need to remain faithful
in order for Jehovah
to keep their names “in the book of life.”
Then, just before Armageddon,
God’s Son will pass final judgment
on all of those then living here on earth.
Persons who are judged to be righteous
will enter into everlasting life on earth.
What a marvelous reward
for those who keep their integrity!
Although Jesus’ third parable
applies to those
who hope to live on the earth,
anointed ones too must listen
to the warning message found in that parable.
How so?
Because Jesus is observing their actions,
attitudes, and speech as well.
They too must prove
to be righteous and faithful.
Still, a few questions remain.
For example, how are anointed Christians
undergoing a period of judgment today?
And what warnings did Jesus provide for them?
We find the answers to both questions
in the first two parables
of Matthew chapter 25.
To prepare us for this review,
let’s briefly consider
how anointed Christians are chosen.
We’ll start by looking
at a lesson from ancient times.
When the priesthood
was established in ancient Israel,
Jehovah decided
who would serve as high priest
as well as the underpriests
at the tabernacle.
Exodus 28:1 tells us
that he selected
“Aaron, along with his sons.”
No one could rightly question
Jehovah’s choice,
and those chosen
had to prove worthy of their calling.
Similar to what he did back then,
Jehovah chooses those
who will serve as priests in heaven.
He began by selecting Jesus
to serve as High Priest.
Although Jesus was a perfect man,
he did not choose that role for himself.
We read at Hebrews 5:5
that “the Christ did not glorify himself
by becoming a high priest.”
Likewise, those who will serve
as priests in heaven
do not choose themselves for this assignment.
They are selected by Jehovah
and anointed with his holy spirit.
He knows each one
whom he has anointed for this service.
How do faithful anointed ones
view their heavenly calling?
When a person is anointed by God,
he or she knows without a doubt
that it is from Jehovah
and that one accepts
Jehovah’s choice with gratitude.
Instead of feeling proud or haughty,
anointed ones strive
to imitate Jesus’ example of humility.
They’re helped to do so
by keeping in mind
the lessons and warnings
that are found in Jesus’ parables for them.
It’s noteworthy
that just before relating his parables,
Jesus spoke
about a “faithful and discreet slave”
who would distribute spiritual food
at the proper time during the last days.
That slave pictures a small group
of anointed Christian men today,
the Governing Body.
For their faithful service, Jesus said
that there would be a reward,
but he also provided a warning.
He spoke about what would happen
if that slave ever lost sight
of Jesus’ future return
and started to mistreat his fellow slaves.
If that were to happen,
that slave would be viewed as evil and would,
as Matthew 24:51 states,
be ‘punished with the greatest severity.’
Please note that Jesus was not prophesying
that there would be an evil slave.
This is a warning, not a prophecy.
What was the warning?
That the faithful slave
needs to remain watchful.
Yet, it is not just
“the faithful and discreet slave”
who must remain watchful.
By means of his parables, Jesus warned
that all anointed ones must likewise prove
to be discreet, faithful, and watchful.
Now, how did Jesus make his point?
In the parable of the virgins, Jesus spoke
of ten virgins who went out
to meet a bridegroom.
They hoped to accompany
the bridegroom into his marriage feast.
Jesus described five of the virgins
as discreet and five as foolish.
The Greek word used for “discreet”
conveys the idea of understanding,
forethought, discernment, and wisdom
in a practical sense.
So the discreet virgins were wise,
and they showed this by being ready
when the bridegroom arrived
in the middle of the night.
They had lamps to light their way.
And Matthew 25:4 adds
that “the discreet [virgins]
took oil in their flasks
along with their lamps.”
So they had the means
to keep their lamps burning.
Because they proved to be ready,
they could follow the bridegroom
into his marriage feast.
This action depicts genuine anointed ones
entering into their heavenly reward.
They will be judged as worthy
to join the Bridegroom, Jesus,
in his heavenly Kingdom.
But what about the foolish virgins?
Well, unlike the discreet virgins,
the foolish ones were not ready
when the bridegroom arrived.
Their lamps died out.
As a result, they
could not follow the bridegroom
and enter into his marriage feast.
When they later tried to do so,
they heard the bridegroom tell them:
“I do not know you.”
What is the lesson and warning
that Jesus was illustrating?
He was showing that only anointed Christians
who “keep on the watch” and prove to be ready
will follow him into the reward.
Notice, though, that Jesus did not say
that there would be
a large number of foolish ones
who would be unprepared
when he comes in this way
at the great tribulation.
Here, too, this is a warning, not a prophecy.
We’re not focused
on five of them being discreet
and five of them being foolish.
Jesus was simply letting anointed ones know
what would happen
if they failed to “keep on the watch.”
That is a sobering thought.
Whether our hope is heavenly or earthly,
all true Christians
should listen to the warning
found in the parable of the virgins.
We must “keep on the watch”
and always be ready
to carry out our service to God.
Now, after using the parable of the virgins
to emphasize the need to be discreet,
Jesus related a parable
that highlights the need to be faithful.
It is the parable of the talents, or money.
In this parable, Jesus tells about two slaves
who were faithful to their master
and one slave who was not.
How did the two slaves prove to be faithful?
Well, the faithful slaves worked hard
to increase the money
that their master entrusted to their care
just before he traveled abroad.
When he returned, the faithful slaves
had more to give back
than what they had received
and they were blessed for doing so.
But what about the third slave,
the sluggish one?
What did he do with what he had received?
Well, the sluggish slave
buried what he had been given
and failed to increase his master’s talents.
When the master returned,
that slave had nothing additional
to give to his master.
He even tried to blame the master,
calling him “a demanding man.”
As a result, that slave
did not receive greater blessings.
More than that, what he had been given
was taken away from him,
and he was cast out
of the master’s household.
What did the master’s response mean
for each of his slaves,
and whom do they picture today?
The two faithful slaves
depict anointed Christians
who proved to be valued members
of the master’s household.
The Master, Jesus, invites them
to “enter into the joy of [their] master.”
That joy pictures their heavenly reward.
On the other hand,
the bad example of the sluggish slave
provides a warning for anointed ones.
How so?
If anointed ones
do not remain alert and watchful,
they could become self-satisfied
with what they have received.
They might not extend themselves
in Kingdom service.
They could lose sight
of their responsibilities
and fail to do as 2 Peter 1:10 urges,
where they are told “to make the calling
and choosing sure for themselves.”
If any of them
become like the sluggish slave,
they would not be approved
to enter into the heavenly Kingdom
and share in the joy of the Master.
Once again,
Jesus was providing
a warning, not a prophecy.
Clearly, all anointed Christians
must strive to be both discreet and faithful.
Whether our hope is heavenly or earthly,
all true Christians are determined
to remain faithful to Jehovah.
We are secure in our relationship with him.
We’re not concerned if Jehovah
chooses to anoint
some faithful ones in more recent years.
We recall what Jesus said
regarding the “11th-hour” workers
in his illustration about the vineyard.
You can read about it in Matthew chapter 20.
Those who were invited
to work in the vineyard later in the day
received the same reward
from the master of the vineyard
as those who were invited
to work in it earlier in the day.
Likewise, Jehovah and his Son
know how many anointed ones to call
in order to complete
the number of 144,000
before the end comes.
But no matter when they are selected,
each anointed one
who is judged to be faithful
will receive their heavenly reward.
Now with that in mind, let’s consider
Matthew 24:40, 41.
And as we do, we’ll see how these verses
connect to Jesus’ parables for the anointed.
At Matthew 24:40, it reads:
“Then two men will be in the field;
“one will be taken along
and the other abandoned.
“Two women will be grinding at the hand mill;
one will be taken along
and the other abandoned.”
Did you notice
some similarities to the parables?
Jesus spoke of two men working in a field
and of two women working at a hand mill.
Outwardly, they appear to be the same.
But in each case, Jesus said
that “one [would] be taken along
and the other abandoned.”
He then urged his followers
to “keep on the watch, therefore,
because you do not know
on what day your Lord is coming.”
Jesus said something very similar
after relating the parable of the virgins.
In both examples, he provided a warning.
Since the parable of the virgins
applies to anointed Christians,
do Jesus’ comments
about those who are taken along
also apply to the anointed?
It appears that they do.
And here again,
Jesus was providing a warning.
In his great prophecy regarding
“the conclusion of the system of things,”
we find that Jesus lovingly highlights
both the good news of the Kingdom,
as well as warning messages for all people,
including his followers.
Down to this day,
our message follows the same pattern.
It is both one of salvation
as well as one of warning.
And we must continue to do all that we can
to deliver Jesus’ twofold message
and help others to act on it
while there is still time.
Clearly, Jehovah and his Son want us
to remain discreet,
faithful, and on the watch.
So, what have we considered?
Some of the virgins in Jesus’ illustration
found out that the door was shut,
and they heard the bridegroom tell them:
“I do not know you.”
One of the slaves
in Jesus’ illustration of the talents
did not enter into his master’s joy
but was thrown outside into the darkness.
Jesus also indicated
that not all would be taken along
into the heavenly reward.
What a serious warning
for those who have the heavenly hope!
Even so, we are confident
that the full number of them will be filled.
Truly, this is a time of judgment
for all of God’s people,
including the righteous sheep
who yearn to live forever on earth.
But there is no reason for any of us
to fear the final judgment that is yet ahead.
Our loving heavenly Father
promises to give us
“power beyond what is normal” so that we may,
as Luke 21:36 says,
“succeed in . . .
standing before the Son of man.”
So then, whether our hope
is heavenly or earthly,
we must heed the warnings
found in Jesus’ parables
and thereby keep our names
“written in the book of life.”